hey everybody at saster i wanted to have
another
fun informal conversation with one of i
think the most insightful
and smartest uh cloud investors
sunil daliwal gp and founder of amplify
partners
interesting for a couple reasons but um
sunil's been investing in cloud
internet since before almost anybody
right you've spent almost your entire
career in venture
back when a 200 million of 800 million
exit might be exciting before any of
this stuff was hot
is that fair to say 800 million exit
would be insane
be insane one of the biggest firms
around and i think we had we had
a 200 million dollar fund and people
like i can't believe we're running 200
million dollars in venture capital
it's crazy right so not that many people
have started
so early in the career so long in the
space and great investments
that we know like datadog and fastly um
and good at it um you know beezer
clarkson just tweeted out that
uh at least one of the amplifi funds was
the top one the top performing in the
sapphire portfolio so
that's a good thing but even more
interestingly i got to know sunil
uh a bit informally and i loved his his
somewhat skepticism of things in the
industry
and his founder-centric view of things
which aligns with my values so his
insights i find
i find very helpful as an insider that's
also founder-centric that's a way that i
think we all can learn
and so i kind of want to dig in on a few
topics um
he did just raise a 375 million dollar
fund i don't want to do too much
inside baseball but it's a lot of money
when back in the day it
bad or whatever 200 seemed a lot so
we'll talk about that we'll talk about
fundraising during a pandemic
um i want to talk a little bit about how
ventures change and then i want to talk
about competing
investing in the competitive space
because we love datadog as one example i
want to use it a quick case study but
with
20 100 vendors in the space how can
founders compete
in general and with vcs in in a crowded
space but
maybe let's kick it off talk about like
375 million is that a lot of money
um and what does it mean to a founder
like i read the press release you guys
have raised your fourth fund through
what as a founder what should i take
away from that headline number what does
it mean to me
yeah so i think there's a there's a the
headline numbers are confusing
um i think you always want to put a
little bit of context around them and
then they'll probably give you some
actual data as opposed to just looking
at headline numbers so
for us the thing that's always managed
is for
the thing that's always mattered has
been how much money
is each investing partner managing and
you go in the wayback machine to 2012
when i started amplify amplify one was
me
and 49.1 million dollars right it was
50. so one person 50. and then over the
course of that fund
i recruited in you know who is
effectively the co-my co-founder
he runs amplify with me um
is mike dauber and and mike and i
together raised fund two
and that was 125 million so call that
like 60-ish and change
62 yep um and then over the course of
that fund we had promoted up
david byer to partner and recruited
lenny pruss away from red point to join
us and we'd known rhett lenny from long
way back
and so when fund three went out we're
four people in 200 million bucks and
magically we're back at 50 million
dollars
and our current fund is actually 275
and we'll come back to the to the select
fund a second but 275 is now divided
amongst five of us
with sarah catanzaro also joining us or
being promoted up to partner
so magically we've stayed right around
50 this those 55 million this time
around so we've got to stay 50 to 60 per
person
and if i found you know what you asked
was what should a founder think about
that
i don't know if they should think
anything of it um yeah that's the
question right it may mean less than you
think right
yeah and i think you know i guess if my
strategy was to show up
and to try and lead an 80 million dollar
round and write a 50 million dollar
check to do that
and you're like wait a second 275
divided by five people your piece of
that's probably 55 like this is the only
deal you're going to do the whole fund
to go do that round but what we always
wanted to do is say
we're a series seed and series a firm
you know when we're going to show up and
write these checks that over time are
going to be
you know 2 million 10 million whatever
then you start to think about having
50-ish million dollars to deploy over
the course of two and a half three years
as probably a more rational number and
you know when you're talking about cdna
investors for us that felt right for
other people that are maybe micro funds
that seems like
a ton of money to manage for a human and
for people that are
maybe more abc investors they might go
like oh i could go through 55 million
bucks in a year
um so it kind of depends on the strategy
yep well let's just press on one thing
on that so let's say i'm a founder
let's say i want to raise a million or
two million or three million dollars and
those are more different than they sound
right they could be stage dependent
is so now let's just break this down for
a minute is a fif is a
and your first fund was fun was 50
million 49.9 for one to three million
is a 30 million dollar fund too small
is 375 too big so the interesting
learning for founders is 375 is not too
big
right and why what's when is uh how do i
know how to do those boundary conditions
when a fund's too small
or too big to raise x millions i'll do
the i'll do the
i'll do the quick fact clarification
just to make sure right and i'll jump
back so
our fourth fund is 275. and we raised a
separate vehicle alongside of it that's
another 100 million but that can
only be we only use that to do growth
investments in our existing portfolio
yeah but i'm as a founder i don't care
375 but i'm with you the main
for inside baseball it's a big
difference it's 275 and 100
extra money for the winners right for
the next day to dog and so to that end
you could say look if i got a billion or
a hundred or fifty
why do i care as a founder the thing i
care about as a founder
is how me your two things one is how
meaningful
is this check gonna be to that firm and
i always
i always tell people to be really
skeptical of the 2 billion
5 billion pool of capital that's like
we can give you a million bucks they can
and if what you're looking for is money
to literally write you a check and get
out of your way
that's a really good setup right
friction could be low they might not
give a they're not going to spend
any
time paying attention to you but if
you're looking for engagement
that might not be the right strategy in
most cases our experience it is
absolutely not the right strategy so
i think there's this engagement
continuum where you have to understand
how material
a check is going to be to that firm
you're taking money from
and if it's not that material you should
think carefully
um you also should think carefully if
like hey is this the biggest thing
you've ever done
like if we hit a single hiccup are you
all going to freak out because like the
entire
outcome of your firm is riding on our
one and
you know there's a there's a balance um
so i'd say that whole thing is
is one continuum to look at is the how
how well
sized am i from a criticality the other
thing to think about and this is
inside baseball that's really important
is you should
understand what that investor's posture
is
on following on right because if i'm
just doing 275 million dollar fund for
seed round
and a round deals you might go like man
if you're only writing three million
dollar checks or four million dollar
checks on
average does that mean you're really
going to do 90 deals out of this fund
and the answer is absolutely not
like that's not how we do it because we
reserve really aggressively
and want to drive in more money and b's
and c's and d's and whatever
we put a lot of money into our companies
over time as is our design
yep and that changes the math too and
you've got to know that about your
investor to think about how you should
or shouldn't be counting on them for the
future
let me ask you one follow up on that
because i think it's an interesting
thing for founders think about
so you talked about in essence how much
risk a fund would be taken on your
investment right if it's a token amount
of the fund they're going to leave you
alone but they're not going to help
that's true
right and if it's too much it could it
also can be
can create some stress right what about
as someone who's gone from
your own a solo gp fund in 2012
to a team how does a founder think about
a new partner
right because on the one end it's
exciting and what i see a lot today as
founders often bond with a new font
partner i just came out of stripe i just
came out of datadog i came out of fastly
i'm an engineer i love the guy that was
the cto of fastly who
have been making it up i want him right
or her
and yet what if it's their biggest check
like there's pros but there's how do i
decide do i want
if i could pick do i want the more
experienced partner or the new partner
what are the trade-offs there
the honest trade-offs i think that's
going to be very
firm specific and and i don't want to
hedge too much
i think i think you are right one of the
issues you're pointing out is
um hey people who are maybe newer in
their career
don't get all the latitude that people
who are more senior in their career
or maybe more senior in a firm have
yeah when things are going you know
not as great as they should you know
there there may be a shorter
a shorter rope so to speak and that's
very reasonable and it's real right i
think there's a lot of
great investors that are learning what
they're doing and
but they kind of don't have the full
trust and credibility to do
everything on their own and to some
people that's a
that can be a risk to manage um
as you pointed out sometimes and we
believe this deeply right i believe our
amplified single graded greatest asset
is that
sunil and mike have zero monopoly on the
truth and we actually believe that our
younger people are
far better at spotting new stuff and
avoiding the perils of pattern
recognition that will like
make me a dinosaur sometime you know
relatively soon
and by that that's like 10 years not two
years but
that matters and so there's a balance
there right the people who are going to
be believers and see around corners they
they may not have all the scar
tissue from from 20 years of doing this
and that's
valuable like that can be your best
friend as a founder but
you know there is this trade-off the the
thing where i'd say it's firm specific
though
is um you know there are certain firms
that run things different ways
um amplify doesn't have attribution for
deals
we we refuse to focus individual track
records out to our lps
100 of our economics are
you know shared meaning not that every
person has the same compensation in the
fund
but it's not that if your deal does
better than my deal
in given fund that you're gonna get you
know
juiced up and i'm gonna get juice down
we create a lot of incentives so that
we have to win or lose together and
people that do that really well
i think what you're going to find is is
you kind of get the support
of the organization rather than the
support of an individual
i think founders can figure this out
when they're going through deal
processes
right if you ever have a partner who's
like
okay great i really like this i'm gonna
take you in to meet my partnership
i need two hours with you before that
meeting and i'm gonna tell you who's who
and like which person's gonna fall
asleep and which person isn't going to
get it
and like how you're going to stage
manage all these individuals
i always walk away from that going like
oh this is really clear you're on your
own and these people are just obstacles
to be overcome
you will never talk to them again in
your life they will never know who you
are they might not even recognize you at
the holiday party
that's a good signal that you really
need to be focused on
who's my sponsor and like how much do i
trust them
and other organizations you're like yeah
i've had four meetings i've met
literally everybody and like
i get random intros from this person and
this person is telling me that they
kept me it feels a lot more or
better signal that you're not kind of
solely putting your chips on an
individual
um but it is hard to figure that out
without a little bit of effort as a
founder
yup uh so let me just summarize and
let's let's talk about fundraisings i
can covid
forget about amplify but industry-wide
cause you deal with this with your
portfolio would you rather have
um a seasoned partner that can lose the
money
listen you've got a pretty good track
record you can write you don't want to
but you could write off a 10 million
dollar investment it's not going to sink
you personally right
you're you're up i think once a
partner's up nine figures or more
you can write off five percent ten
percent and like maybe they're cross
funds but
but it's okay would you rather have that
person not you but that exp
but that maybe is skiing a little bit or
used to be skiing before covet or is
less available or would you
rather have the up and comer that maybe
will will even found their own amplified
like it's possible these days which one
would you just for fun binary which one
would you pick today
yeah so i i i'll give you the answer and
then i'll give you the rationale i would
always take
column b the up-and-comer the the
up-and-comer
but yeah but it's not because they're
the up-and-comer i think that's a little
bit of a false choice what i think is
inherent what you're asking is
would i take the person that i love and
really want to work with because i
believe in them and they believe in me
or would i take the safe choice that i
think like i'm going to manage some risk
and i'm going to align with what i
believe to be the most powerful
individual i think that's a losing game
i think that's a good insight take the
believer over the power
the power center right if you're an
early stage company
at the end of the day is you need
someone who will work their ass off and
irrationally believe
at the same time and i don't think
there's a more powerful combo when you
get
that individual on your side um
they will be there too like a good
investor will be there to buck you up
personally when things look horrible
they will remind you why they put their
ass on the line
and their money at risk to believe in
you they will
fall asleep thinking about your company
and wake up thinking about your company
and hopefully not in a bad way
in a good way like that all comes with
someone who is a passionate believer and
so
i would strike up-and-comer but i would
replace it with like
would i rather that person who's just
all in on me and my company
i personally would take that every time
because i think that at the early stages
of a company that is
literally what matters yeah maybe even
later because when cap becomes more
fungible maybe i do want the one that
wants it the most but it's a good
insight right
i actually i think when this is a maybe
a broader conversation and how one
raises capital and what's the value of
different capital at different stages
obviously if you can get the whole
package right they're the most senior
person with the biggest stick
and they've got like 8 billion twitter
followers and a cult following
you know around the industry and they
are absolutely irrational believers in
what you're doing and want to make you
successful like
that's a great combo to have but when
you're if you're making trade-offs
i think the place where you make
trade-offs
away from irrational belief and into
some of those other things
it's easier at the later stages of a
company when you're like i got my
business
i know what i do and we need to focus on
scaling and executing
in ways that it's going to take my team
doing it
not you doing it and what i really need
is the capital
right i always i always say like the
capital you care the least about
is the person who buys all your shares
the day you sell your company
like you don't really care who that
human is like you care about the price
when you're doing like a follow-on
offering in the public market
you know you care a little bit right
like you don't want them to be
someone who's gonna stick their nose
into your business and screw it up and
maybe when you allocate ipo shares you
care a teeny bit
more because presumably they're longer
and you know you keep tracing that
continuum back
to the earliest stages at the earliest
stages you've got to care the most
they're going to be closest to you they
will have an outside
influence over the life of the thing and
so
yeah i would always be going man really
go for the believer
early really get that person who's just
all in on you
and your idea and is just gonna gonna go
for it with you
whereas in a later stage you know
capital will
look just more like capital and you know
the further out you go that becomes more
true and there's certainly a continuum
but i i do believe that i've and i've
that's been informed by a lot of
experience
yep well let's transition for a minute
about a topic that i'm
i'm confused about even though i've seen
it is what
is fundraising really like during covid
um and we were chatting before
certainly it's hyperactive right deals
are getting done faster than ever
they're getting done at zoom i actually
think they're getting done with less
diligence
not no diligence but you don't have the
four weeks of in-person meetings they're
getting done in days we have a joint
investment that was a sleepy company
before that got four term sheets in days
and it's happened again and again i can
but um
but i also and i want to hear your
thoughts but what i also see when i look
at the hyper investment in my portfolio
which is smaller than yours
i also don't see a lot happening with
folks they never met before with
companies they haven't heard of unless
they're tiny checks right tiny checks at
demo days fine
throw the money in but is it is it
easier for
the well-known and the hot and harder
for the rest how do you break into
funding today
in in the in a global pandemic dude what
do you think on these topics
yeah i'll give you some observations
about what i've seen and then maybe we
can circle back and talk about
what i would do if i was a founder
exactly
what have i seen right out of the gate
everybody stopped
right yeah everything just stopped and i
think every one of us that had lived
through 2001 and 2002
uh you know 2000 2001 and then again
live through
oh 809 you know we immediately pulled
out our playbooks and we're like here it
is
this is the downturn this is how you do
it cut everything
the world's over and and like always i
think what we learned is
is that every adjustment correction
problem is different than the last one
like there are some lessons to learn
but for the first few weeks nobody did
anything
everyone was just like prices are going
to come down things are going to get
difficult rain our cash in focus on the
portfolio and that happened
and then there was this next phase where
a bunch of people and amplify was
included we raised a very small
opportunistic vehicle
um you know it was big enough to go do
five or six deals where we looked at our
existing portfolio and said
these are all great companies all of
these companies
probably have management teams that are
a little bit more defensive
and want to have more runway and we
normally wouldn't have opportunities to
give them capital
in any normal environment because it
would be outside investors pushing in
and they don't want to take the dilution
and we just showed up to five or six
companies and said if you can take more
if you
we got it for you and we close five or
six inside deals in a very short
period of time that speaks to what
you're talking about which is if you
know them
right if you have that relationship and
you have that belief and you have that
trust both direction
yep deals got done and and people you
know people
in the market encourage wanted capital
and people who are having capital
like i want to go focus on the best
assets that are out there and i think
you saw this
all the way up to like you know silver
lake partners
writing a huge check into airbnb exactly
that's the canonical
example right just just let's pick as
long as i get a great deal i'm in
and it wasn't even a great deal i think
well they got a great deal but i think a
lot of people looked at and we talked
about this too was
when i remember passed down turns past
downturns didn't create
fire sale prices for amazing companies
right amazing companies went from being
horrendously impossible no nosebleed
valuations to like
all right i guess i could live with that
and getting into like a great company
with and
i guess i can live with that like it's
still a win it's a win yeah
so i think a lot of people started
behaving that way we did this big survey
of all the growth investors the c-round
d-round
investors thinking about this for our
own portfolio saying hey
what are you going to do and it very
quickly came down this dynamic you
described which is
from management teams that we've met
before we've had that face-to-face we've
kind of seen the business
over some period of time those are the
companies that we're going to feel
comfortable
running a virtual process and and then
we asked a question like
could you ever do something entirely
over zoom
from first meeting to close uh
everyone was like uh hell no and even
the ones that were like oh yeah we would
do that
we asked the question like okay well has
that happened in your own portfolio any
new investors showed up for your
companies
and they're like oh no it hasn't
happened to us yet but maybe we would do
it
that was maybe april mark may were
talking about i was certainly surprised
by the fact that even that has gone
even more liberal in that point of view
in july august september
where it feels like you know when the
public markets
kind of rebounded and you know spa
activity took off and there was just you
know the capital interest
in the innovation economy was as strong
as it ever been
i think all those same dynamics came
back i do think it's still
harder to raise capital with people you
haven't met before
um no doubt about that but whereas
the beginning of covid the answer was no
chance in hell
i think it very quickly changed over the
summer to
if you got a good business your business
will speak for itself and
people are getting more comfortable with
the idea of writing those checks to
people where processes are virtual
than they ever have like just like a
whole bunch of people said i'll never
hire remote
and all of a sudden they're like i guess
i got a remote
uh i think you're seeing the same thing
in some investor behavior
um the takeaway for founders maybe the
most salient piece
here is you need to get to know p like
never worry about getting to know folks
too early
right and getting to know folks doesn't
mean you got to walk them through slide
deck after slide deck and turn over
pipeline and customers
there's a different way to get to know
people where
you know they want to know who you are
too they want to stay in touch you know
they want to know that you think you're
going to add
four customers the next quarter and then
when you come back to them
you know end number of months later and
you nab four customers you actually
added six
right there's nothing more that inspires
more confidence in a prospective
investor than
you telling them where you are and what
you're going to do and then seeing you
go do it
that is more valuable than it's ever
been because you can't rely on
i'll get a whole bunch of people in a
room really quickly and they'll all just
decide on something
it's it's a good insight i love i love
getting
you know you know no one likes to get
spam but i love getting that monthly
investor update from a founder i met
whether virtual or not
and you just watch that metric like that
great investor update right and you see
it
and that that was always a win a winner
before covid but you're right everyone
should do that like if you have match if
you're post metric
and you meet whoever sunil or jason or
eileen or hunter whoever
send that monthly investor update they
can unsubscribe
don't do it maybe don't do it in
mailchimp i love mailchimp do it
yourself
and send it but they they'll tell you if
they don't want it but they want it
they're going to open that email send it
to mixmax they're going to see it
and it's wonderful even over three or
four months it does build a relationship
right even if you didn't see them in
person it's
if that is the best hack of all and send
that monthly update the first of each
month with confidence and
it's going to get opened right and i
think there's another piece to just
sending metrics which is
don't be shy about setting some
expectations
making some claims about where you're
going to go right if you really are
going to say
in the next such period of time we
confidently feel like we're going to get
these things knocked down
just the simple act of telling someone
what you plan to do
and then actually in hindsight having
delivered it there's no greater
credibility builder to me
than when somebody actually is willing
to put those stakes in the ground and
then deliver is what they say they're
going to do
because it's very easy to like have a
bunch of arrows against the wall
and then go oh yeah that was our target
you know paint some bull's-eyes around
those arrows hit
but when you actually go out there and
say this is our plan
and then you deliver 90 on this metric
and 120
on that metric and not right on target
on this other metric
as an investor you get a lot of
confidence that
what you're telling me is not a story
just meant to
get me excited and show up but like
you're actually showing me
that the business is doing what i said
it was going to do
and that's a huge deal yeah it's a good
insight you know a related point and
then i want to spend our last couple of
minutes talking about
datadog as in crowded spaces but you
know the other reminder why uh
based on what you said and why i love
that monthly emails we for you know when
i'm a found before i
before i had invested when i was a
founder sometimes i feared i was almost
wasting vc's time i took my time
seriously but you'd roll up to sandhill
and you'd wait for the receptionist and
and he would get you a perrier and situ
and then you'd wait 20 minutes in the
conference room
and plug in your laptop it wouldn't work
i felt like i was wasting
a little bit wasting batteries or
sequoia's time but
that's wrong if if if an investor that
has been doing this more than one week
takes their time out to spend an hour
with you even a half an hour
they give a right they care and
they're gonna if
they're gonna remember that meeting
probably and if you send that monthly
update
there's going to be a connection right
no one's wasting their time out there
right and
the vcs do care they may only care about
you as an object to make money but that
but forget but remember they care no
one's wasting their time out there are
they that meeting never happened that
zoom isn't
it's going to end in five minutes if
they don't care so take advantage of
that
and show show that you hit the goals you
set out and the interest will remain
right
i i completely agree with that and and
one of the
i mean the great tools in the
entrepreneur's favor is you have this
you know the update is asymmetrically in
your favor from a time
invested point of view right i can write
update once
i can deliver that to 25 people rather
than taking 25 meetings
and of those 25 people if 10 of them
never open it
god bless you just figured out 10 people
not to spend a minute with
but for the 15 that do
and the five that write you back and the
two that are like this is really cool
let's catch up an email
like what a fantastic opt a way to
optimize your
own time in your own to really think
about who gives a
because i always tell people that this
is a truism i throw around a ton and i
believe it's true of
all sorts of early stage fundraising is
it is a
search problem it is not a sales problem
right
you rarely are going to go in and pitch
your heart out and overcome objection
over a projection
to get someone who doesn't fundamentally
believe or is it fundamentally primed to
be excited about you
to overcome that inherent bias to the
negative
but what you're really trying to do is
identify the people
that gravitate to what you say are like
oh that that really makes sense like i
really love that idea
and tell me more about this and and you
know those interactions like you've been
in um
you've been as an investor and as a as a
founder i'm sure you've been in these
meetings
where you just you get this dialogue
there is nothing
more important i think in a fundraising
process than getting to that moment
like where do i have engagement and if
you think about how you get to
engagement
man it sucks if you've got to do 25
one-hour meetings
with in pre-covered days the travel time
and the laptop setup time
but right now if you're keeping a whole
bunch of people drip fed
and updated on your company you get way
more efficiency in your time to figure
out the three or five or seven that
actually give a darn
that's way in your favor as a founder
and people should not be afraid of using
that as a tool
it is good but it's way in your favor
right in this digital world you can
there's so many signals if these
investors you keep warm are interested
right even just opening that
email so you're right it's um so much
better than schlepping up and down
or flying flying to the bay area lose
losing a week i mean me some customers
but
boy i'm gonna fly out from belgium to
meet a bunch of i mean you blow you blow
10 days doing that right what'd you do
with the week of your time i had seven
vc meetings that's insane like
yeah killed it i could i couldn't meet
with my customers because i had to do it
oh my i want to cry when i hear that
right
all right last one let's talk just for a
minute about datadog
and the reason i i want to talk about
datadog is you invested early
and there's a lot of great things about
datadog i like one the reason i find it
interesting is a case study and
and we have we we kind of highlighted it
at our first
europe in paris we did it with olivier
but it's it's it's
such a beloved product right and
obviously it's done incredibly well on
the public and better than we thought
right i don't know what datadog i
remember
i remember talking with some folks right
before zoom one public and they were
thinking it would be worth 4 billion and
it's worth a little bit more today
and i don't know what the expectations
were on datadog it was it's a great like
the growth is you know top
three percent right but they weren't but
this one is another one that
outperformed but but
what's fun about both of those is
they're iconic if you talk to
developers especially we talked to folks
that have put significant products into
production right that that are stressed
about they love they loved
the next generation loves datadog don't
they they just love it all the founders
all the ctos
they love it but yet it's a crowded
space
it is a crowded space and certainly
probably when you invested so
what are the learnings for founders in
in both winning and crowded spaces and
why did you
why did you invest in a crowded space
yeah um
and i think what's a crowded space or
not is gonna
shift based on your perceptions at the
moment and the perceptions in hindsight
and who you define as you're for sure
and and and all that sort of stuff so i
mean
i i i will let's continue down the path
to answer the meta question but in a lot
of ways
um maybe this is the right answer for
for the meta question
um i didn't look at datadog as the most
crowded space
in the world what i looked at datadog as
was these are founders who deeply
understand their domain right they have
lived this
problem olivier and bran engineering
teams
and as running in their context of
running engineering teams they
knew the tools that they wish they had
or they had to build for themselves
there's this emerging thing called the
cloud was showing up and
there was no systems management tools
there was no server you know like
basic stuff that they had relied on in
the
client server world or the end tier
world like you just didn't have those
tools and so they found themselves
making them or at least really
understanding what the gaps were and so
it's a thing that we believe deeply in
which is this founder market fit
this idea that you as a founder are in a
prime position to understand what the
customer needs maybe because you've been
the customer maybe because you've
worked on similar solutions that was
number one
as i just it really was a bet on
individuals that we
thought got the problem better than
others
the other thing was there was a catalyst
right they just didn't go out and say
you know zoom socks making this up the
2020 version zoom sucks
zoom would be better if it had these
three features that can be a successful
company but it can't
be as big of a company what would have
been
i'll make this up if all of a sudden in
2020 zoom
magically only worked on a desktop
right and somebody was like i think this
video conferencing thing can
go can go way beyond that and the
catalyst here is like
we think mobile is going to take off and
and what if there was no product for
mobile we could go make it for mobile
there was a catalyst there right and in
the early days of data dog
the catalyst was really clearly
people if you go to the cloud as soon as
you decide to stand up your first cloud
instance
all that old tooling the monitoring and
the performance management and
ultimately the logging and other things
they got like
it's gone like that entire stack forget
it if your new world
is going to be built off of cloud you're
going to re-platform
all of these key building blocks to
support you as an ops and infrastructure
person
and so not only do we feel like these
people have the right answer for what
the product should be
but the belief was there was going to be
this pull
that if they got it right that at that
moment
you know people are going to show up
they're going to flip on their cloud
instance they're going to go this amazon
thing's really cool
what's the first thing i need to do to
make my life easier well i got to have a
monitoring solution
and in hindsight when you think about
why it's bigger than anyone
ever has expected i think there's two or
three reasons the first is
is the best proxy for aws growth in the
private markets
like that's that's a fair insight right
it is a proxy right yeah it's a very
good proxy for that and so there we got
so much pull
the second thing and you highlighted
this when we were talking offline about
how excited your team was about
something like new relic
they they were very smart in
understanding a very consistent product
experience
and having a very good relationship with
a buyer
that allowed them to extend into a few
other product categories for every
natural extensions
so monitoring went to apm and so when
they
launched and went after new relic it was
it was
been a huge hit to the new relic market
cap and a big opportunity for datadog
and then they kind of then went
after logging with splunk and i think
one of the another reason why they both
they've grown is not just because the
market size is so big in
the market growth is so big in cloud but
because they have
found really nice ways to extend into
adjacencies and this is like a big
company move this is not like a small
founder move small founders should not
be thinking about this in like the first
couple years of their company first time
sure but but everyone gets there to
build a billion a billion er everyone
has multiple products we've learned
right so you've got to do it
and then and then i'd say the third
thing which was absolutely
unclear at the time or unknown is you
know you just have founders who turn out
to be
execution animals like they they are
just
really really good executors and hirers
and
product thinkers and they they wake up
and they they fight to win every single
day
and you know datadog is a very
execution-oriented culture
and yeah they have they have done they
have taken the hand of cards that they
that they were dealt and did every
single thing
right and not everything but like
they've made the right call
made many more times and they've made
the wrong one and and you know that's
i don't know if they're what their
market cap is now 30 something billion
dollars it's
it's an insane amount of money
especially for guys that probably raised
their
their seed round at something like a
four or five cap
you know done every single thing right
along the way
and building a really efficient scalable
business
yeah that um and maybe we could break on
this this is good coverage that that
i forgot what term issues that insane
commitment to or
it's just um you know it just turns out
that's what builds the deck of corn and
the unicorn it's not enough
but it's it's just it's next level right
if you want to go join a ceo
or a company look for that look for that
insane commitment right
uh it really is true it's not it's not a
trope and
um and you talk about what i think your
term was founder product fit or what's
the term that you use
i like it but on the other hand i almost
feel like it's it's table stakes like i
just
know like if you don't deeply understand
your market even if you weren't even if
you weren't an engineer in the space if
you don't deeply understand the market
at least after 10 customers
it's a no so i'm with you right but if
you have to combine that with this
insane
insane level next level commitment right
it is so hard right
there's a difference there between when
you're writing a
pre-product pre-customer check
and when you can actually talk to
customers because you're right right
with
our mutual investment in gorgeous is not
a place where
where romaine and alex were like we have
lived the customer support problem so
deeply and insanely but once they got to
the point where they had enough
interactions with customers they
understood it as well as anybody
before then you know i would say there
was a question as to
how perfect they were for that domain
and they have really
built that experience but i think a lot
of times when you're looking at
particularly really technical products
putting yourself in my shoes
and
very early before you even have you know
a beta product built you you do have to
have a really deep level of confidence
that those founders
really have an understanding of the
customer they're going after and the
problem they're trying to solve
for certain domains and at least for us
that's been a
has been a big recipe for why you know
some of these companies have worked
worked extremely well and and some of
the ones in the portfolio that are still
growing why we think they've got this
unfair edge
but um you know that is that is our
approach it's not everyone's approach
there's no monopoly on ways that that
you can be a successful investor
like one learning over 20 something
years is that
so yeah for whatever it's worth well
sunil this was great
um we went really long but i learned a
lot
congratulations on the new fund no
pressure right you only have to turn the
275 plus 100
let's see let's do some quick math if
you want a top decile fund how many
unicorns do you
we don't even want to think about how
many unicorns you need in that fund
right
we had to return a billion and if we're
owning you know 15 so
here's to creating somewhere like eight
plus billion dollars of marketing eight
yeah in one funnel you have to have
eight unicorns
to really hit the top deci outperform
it's founders think about
it's it's so much easier to be an
investor than a founder but eight
unicorns per fund is not easy
it is it is not easy all right with that
we'll break thanks for thanks for taking
the covert break uh so you know we'll
chat soon
awesome talking to you bye